projects/1project.md, before:

---
title: KAM Soaring Skies
emoji: 🛫
metaDescription: Project designing keycaps.
date: 2021-10-28T00:00:00.000Z
summary: Glossy keyboard parts for mechanical keyboard hobbyists.
tags:
  - Blender
  - User Research
  - Adobe CC
  - Keyboard Design
---

![Nemui Keyboard with KAM Soaring Skies Keycaps](/static/img/nemui-fixed-compressed.jpg)

### Skills Used
  - Adobe Illustrator/Photoshop
  - Blender
  - User Surveys/Research
  - Social Media Marketing (Reddit, Instagram)

### Overview

KAM Soaring Skies is a year-long project designing mechanical keyboard parts for sale across international vendors in a Kickstarter-esque group buy format.

### What I learned

- How to work with e-commerce vendors and consumers both locally and abroad
- Designing products with ease of use for keyboard hobbyists with non-standard/international key layouts
- Incorporation of user research, surveying, and online critique to improve the end product
- How to render 3D prototypes with Blender

### In Depth

Last December after the developement of [SnackIndex](/projects/snackindex/), I was coming down from having my full schedule disappear from me overnight, and I'd always wanted to make a design for one of my favorite hobbies: the custom mechanical keyboard community. Initially this set required a lot of drafting to identify the style and type of keycaps I wanted, and there were a lot of drafts and revisions:

![image of initial KAM Soaring Skies keycaps, in different arrangements](/static/img/keyset-screenshot.jpg)

The community's feedback was also critical in this project, and I employed 2 rounds of user surveys to get feedback and ensure that my project was kitted for as many users as possible.

![screenshot of user survey for keycap set](/static/img/user-survey.jpg)

When I started, I didn't know how to render my keyboard project in 3D, which is a necessity in the hobby. Being a student at the outset of the project, commissioning a 3D artist was not in my budget so I resolved to learn the process from start to finish in the span of a week. The renders were possible thanks to a community tool for Blender, and [renders can be seen here!](https://imgur.com/a/TjAP57r). But even better than the renders are the end products themselves... are samples from the factory! Still in progress but I hope to get these soon.

![Keycap samples from Keyreative!](/static/img/samples-min.png)

Eventually, I had found a vendor in Vala Supply. They are an Oregon-based keyboard store that was more than happy to help make my set a reality, but we needed global reach to get this sale done. I got into touch with several different vendors from around the world, as well as the intended manufacturer of KAM Soaring Skies: Keyreative/zFrontier. Through their help, we were able to organize the sale and get it running. Currently, my set is in Group Buy until November 30th. [If you are interested in purchasing the keycap set, click here!](https://vala.supply/products/kam-soaring-skies)

![screenshot of store page for my keycaps at BaseKeys, a Japanese Vendor](/static/img/basekeys.jpg)

Commit message:

Minor update to Soaring Skies project article

projects/1project.md, after:

---
title: KAM Soaring Skies
emoji: 🛫
metaDescription: Project designing keycaps.
date: 2021-10-28T00:00:00.000Z
summary: Glossy keyboard parts for mechanical keyboard hobbyists.
tags:
  - Blender
  - User Research
  - Adobe CC
  - Keyboard Design
---

![Nemui Keyboard with KAM Soaring Skies Keycaps](/static/img/nemui-fixed-compressed.jpg)

### Skills Used
  - Adobe Illustrator/Photoshop
  - Blender
  - User Surveys/Research
  - Social Media Marketing (Reddit, Instagram)

### Overview

KAM Soaring Skies is a year-long project designing mechanical keyboard parts for sale across international vendors in a Kickstarter-esque group buy format.

### What I learned

- How to work with e-commerce vendors and consumers both locally and abroad
- Designing products with ease of use for keyboard hobbyists with non-standard/international key layouts
- Incorporation of user research, surveying, and online critique to improve the end product
- How to render 3D prototypes with Blender

### In Depth

Last December after the developement of [SnackIndex](/projects/snackindex/), I was coming down from having my full schedule disappear from me overnight, and I'd always wanted to make a design for one of my favorite hobbies: the custom mechanical keyboard community. Initially this set required a lot of drafting to identify the style and type of keycaps I wanted, and there were a lot of drafts and revisions:

![image of initial KAM Soaring Skies keycaps, in different arrangements](/static/img/keyset-screenshot.jpg)

The community's feedback was also critical in this project, and I employed 2 rounds of user surveys to get feedback and ensure that my project was kitted for as many users as possible.

![screenshot of user survey for keycap set](/static/img/user-survey.jpg)

When I started, I didn't know how to render my keyboard project in 3D, which is a necessity in the hobby. Being a student at the outset of the project, commissioning a 3D artist was not in my budget so I resolved to learn the process from start to finish in the span of a week. The renders were possible thanks to a community tool for Blender, and [renders can be seen here!](https://imgur.com/a/TjAP57r). But even better than the renders are the end products themselves... are samples from the factory! Still in progress but I hope to get these soon.

![Keycap samples from Keyreative!](/static/img/samples-min.png)

Eventually, I had found a vendor in Vala Supply. They are an Oregon-based keyboard store that was more than happy to help make my set a reality, but we needed global reach to get this sale done. I got into touch with several different vendors from around the world, as well as the intended manufacturer of KAM Soaring Skies: Keyreative/zFrontier. Through their help, we were able to organize the sale and get it running. Currently, my set is in Group Buy until November 30th. [The project has finished its initial group buy period, but you can click here if you're interested in the product!](https://vala.supply/products/kam-soaring-skies)

![screenshot of store page for my keycaps at BaseKeys, a Japanese Vendor](/static/img/basekeys.jpg)
